docs: recommend ES|QL first in Vega documentation (#6373) (#7456)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/visualize/custom-visualizations-with-vega.md

Reviewer: Not for this PR, just a thought/observation, which may or may not make sense—you know better:) 

If the "Vega reference” section was a separate doc, a sibling or a child of the `custom-visualizations-with-vega.md‎` doc in the TOC, all of the headings under `Reference for Kibana extensions` would be visible in the sidebar TOC, which could help users navigate the reference more easily, and help us not get lost in the nested headings, too :)

Author: yep I intend to rework that at some point, this page is too long anyways

# Custom visualizations with Vega [vega]

**Vega** and **Vega-Lite** are grammars for creating custom visualizations. You write a JSON (or HJSON) specification that defines the data, transforms, and visual marks. **Vega-Lite** is a good starting point if you are new to both grammars, but they are not compatible.

> Add a **Vega** panel on a dashboard to use these grammars with {{kib}} filters, the time range, and other [{{kib}} extensions](#reference-for-kibana-extensions). A panel's data can come from:

Reviewer: It looks like the list below requires the user’s action to set the data source, so wouldn’t it be slightly better to read if this were:

```suggestion
Add a **Vega** panel on a dashboard to use these grammars with {{kib}} filters, the time range, and other [{{kib}} extensions](#reference-for-kibana-extensions). You can set the panel's data source to:
```

# Custom visualizations with Vega [vega]

**Vega** and **Vega-Lite** are grammars for creating custom visualizations. You write a JSON (or HJSON) specification that defines the data, transforms, and visual marks. **Vega-Lite** is a good starting point if you are new to both grammars, but they are not compatible.

Add a **Vega** panel on a dashboard to use these grammars with {{kib}} filters, the time range, and other [{{kib}} extensions](#reference-for-kibana-extensions). A panel's data can come from:

> * {{es}}, using [{{esql}}](#vega-esql-queries) or [Query DSL](#vega-queries)

Author: ```suggestion
* {{es}}, using:
   * {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.4` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` An [{{esql}}](../query-filter/languages/esql-kibana.md) query (recommended). One query string replaces nested Query DSL aggregations and format paths. See [Writing {{esql}} queries in Vega](#vega-esql-queries).
   * An {{es}} [Query DSL](#vega-queries) search. Use this approach when {{esql}} is unavailable, or when you already have a Query DSL request you want to reuse.
```

* [Elastic Map Service](#vega-esmfiles) vector shapes
* A file at an external URL, using Vega's native [`url` data source](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/#url)
* Static values written directly into the spec, using Vega's native [inline data](https://vega.github.io/vega/docs/data/#inline-data)

> To query {{es}}, you can use:

Author: ```suggestion
```

* {applies_to}`stack: ga 9.4` {applies_to}`serverless: ga` An [{{esql}}](../query-filter/languages/esql-kibana.md) query (recommended). One query string replaces nested Query DSL aggregations and format paths. See [Writing {{esql}} queries in Vega](#vega-esql-queries).

> * An {{es}} [Query DSL](#vega-queries) search. Use this approach when {{esql}} is unavailable, or when you already have a Query DSL request you want to reuse.

Author: ```suggestion
```

* Chart types that other editors do not support, such as scatter charts, sankey charts, or a custom visual theme
* Aggregations that use `nested` or `parent/child` mapping
* Aggregations without a {{data-source}}
* Queries that use custom time filters
* Complex calculations
* Data extracted from `_source` instead of aggregations
* Multiple data sources in one panel

**Vega** and **Vega-Lite** do not support tables, and can’t run queries conditionally.

## Tutorials [_tutorials_create_custom_panels]

These tutorials walk you through building **Vega** and **Vega-Lite** panels on a dashboard: define a data source, shape the chart, and optionally update {{kib}} filters from the visualization.

As you edit the specs, work in small steps and save often. Small changes can cause unexpected results. Specs can use [HJSON](https://hjson.github.io/), which allows optional quotes and commas, comments, and multiline strings.

### Create a line chart from an {{esql}} query [vega-tutorial-create-a-line-chart-from-esql]
```{applies_to}
stack: ga 9.4
serverless: ga
```

Learn how to query your data with {{esql}} from **Vega-Lite** and display the results in a line chart.

> #### Before you begin [_vega_esql_tutorial_before_you_begin]

Reviewer: The H4s of the tutorials could be steppers maybe.

Author: maybe, but I don't intend to rework this here

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://vega.github.io/schema/vega-lite/v6.json",
  "title": "Event counts over time",
  "data": {
    "url": {
      "%type%": "esql", <1>
      "%context%": true, <2>
      "%timefield%": "@timestamp", <3>
      "query": "FROM kibana_sample_data_logs | WHERE @timestamp >= ?_tstart AND @timestamp <= ?_tend | STATS doc_count=COUNT() BY key=DATE_TRUNC(2 hour, @timestamp) | SORT key" <4>
    }
  },
  "mark": "line",
  "encoding": {
    "x": {
      "field": "key",
      "type": "temporal",
      "axis": {"title": false}
    },
    "y": {
      "field": "doc_count",
      "type": "quantitative",
      "axis": {"title": "Document count"}
    }
  }
}
```

1. Tells {{kib}} to run the query as {{esql}}.
2. Applies the dashboard filters to the query.
3. Enables the `?_tstart` and `?_tend` named parameters so the query uses the dashboard time range.
4. The {{esql}} query. {{kib}} converts the columnar response into the row-based format that **Vega** expects.

The chart shows event counts over time from `kibana_sample_data_logs`. For the full list of {{esql}} `url` parameters, see [Writing {{esql}} queries in Vega](#vega-esql-queries).

> To continue with interactive filtering and Query DSL examples, see [Create a stacked area chart from an {{es}} search query](#vega-tutorial-create-a-stacked-area-chart) and [Update {{kib}} filters from Vega](#vega-tutorial-update-kibana-filters-from-vega).

Reviewer: Nit: There’s a couple of `see`-s in this PR that don’t align with the current style guide:)

Author: Yes, I haven't reviewed the content of the sections that were moved to fix the broken structure. That would be for later when I properly rework this page.
